+++
banner = ""
content = "I have just started a new software engineering role and I am really enjoying it so far although I am struggling with one thing - when to ask for help against when to find out yourself.\n\nThroughout my career as a software engineer I have been **learning by doing**. There are lots of positives to this and I always tell people who are beginning to code to do this. It can be quite dull following some YouTube tutorial to build a tic-tac-toe game when you are not at all interested in the game tic-tac-toe. I think people who code should be inspired to build things. But this does come at a caveat...\n\nI started programming because I wanted to make a fashion brand with a friend of mine from College and we needed a website. I wasn't at all interested in being able to write PHP, JavaScript, HTML, SQL, etc... at the time - I just wanted to build an online shop myself.\n\nI got great satisfaction from making new features like a blog page and a CMS panel... and I slowly got more and more interested in building a new feature on the website than I did selling t-shirts.\n\nI had no friends or family who were interested in computers or coding all I wanted was to build features so for a long time I found myself copying and pasting code snippets from StackOverflow -  I was constantly building MVPs but without knowing it I want too far in the direction of wanting to build a new feature than caring about Software Engineering best practices - I didn't have the foggiest about commenting my code, SQL injection, Git, etc... I was publishing all new changes to the site over SFTP to a random CPannel host. But out of this I grew a passion to developing products.\n\nFast forward a year and I decided to study Comp Sci at uni. I began to learn about making my code more efficient, secure and readable while writing incredibly boring programs in mainly Java. I also more importantly found other people with the same interests as me who would expose me to these best practices and tell me about problems they had encountered and for the first time I was exposed to **learning through listening.**\n\nAt my new job we are working remotely,  which has its pros and cons -  mainly cons. Most of my new peers have \"zoom fatigue\" which is completely understandable and I 100% had it at my previous place. The problem with it is that it is very difficult for me to learn through listening. \n\nA message on slack is very official - it requires a written thought-out response and takes a a lot longer and more brain power than a multi tasked mumbled response you can get while sat next to the person. "
date = 2020-12-19T00:00:00Z
draft = true
meta_description = "When to ask for help as a developer vs finding out the answer yourself."
tags = ["Programming", "Learning"]
title = "Learning by doing vs learning by listening as a developer"

+++
